---
layout: post
title: "What's New in Meld 3.14"
date: 2015-07-21 06:21
comments: true
categories: [Meld]
---

Not much.

Oh, okay a few things, but really nothing exciting.


Prettier, searchier file comparison
-----------------------------------

Meld now has limited support for GtkSourceView style schemes for syntax
highlighting. The 'limited' bit here is that our chunk highlight
colours are still taken from CSS; this will change in 3.15.

Also thanks to GtkSourceView, Meld now supports incremental search with
nice match highlighting and other related fixes. So while the
find-replace interface is due for an overhaul, at least we now do nice
things in the back-end.


Clearer folder comparisons
--------------------------

Folder and file comparisons used to get into a weird state where one
checked for line ending differences and the other did not. We're now
more consistent here, with folder comparisons using our existing
same-once-filtered styling for files that are identical *except for line
endings*.

As additional niceties, folder comparisons now have a "everything is
identical" notification like file comparisons had, and we now remember
the expansion state of subtrees in folder comparisons to better support
folding and unfolding.


Random fixes
------------

Meld 3.12 was the first to use new GTK+ 3 and associated bits, so a
fair bit of effort went into fixing little bits and pieces from the
port. Command-line handling should now behave better. We handle
Unicode file names better in a few cases, including several fixes to
handling Unicode paths in Git repositories. Some of our custom widgets
that had bad behaviour in RTL locales have been fixed.


Upcoming stuff
--------------

As previous maintainer-grumpiness might indicate, this was a
challenging release cycle due to a bunch of issues including some
problems related to newer GTK+ versions. Fixing this took a bunch of
time and energy, but the future is looking decidedly brighter.

Specifically, the positive-but-very-painful drawing changes in
`GtkTextView` are going to start actually benefiting us. Meld 3.15 will
do all its change drawing in a relatively sane way, which also lets us
take advantage of some performance improvements in GTK+.

The version bump required to get the new GTK+ API for better drawing
will also mean that we can update to better argument handling provided
by updates to `GApplication`. This should significantly increase the
sanity levels of our current argument and instance handling, and might
help us fix a few weird corner-cases where multiple windows really
don't do what you might expect.

A `GtkSourceView` version bump gets us more cool stuff, including access
to their awesome `GtkSourceFileLoader`/`Saver` classes, which will
significantly improve our performance, and more importantly gets us one
step closer to actually handling non-local file comparison properly.

Finally, a to-be-merged rework of our version control handling should
fix some long-standing issues with consistency between our supported
version control systems, as well as improving performance.
Unfortunately this comes at the cost of removing support for existing
version control plugins with no maintainers, but hopefully we'll recover
some of these before the 3.16 release.
